The arpOli


Midi in)
following commands/controls are recognized and somehow control the arpOli
Note In, Note off, Velocity, Picth, Modulation Wheel, Aftertocuh, Sustain Pedal 
Playable notes are from c2 to c6 and will be transformed to the according voltage.
The maximum voltage of the CV and the EXPR out is 4V.
For now the midi-clock will be negelected. 

Switch 1)
Switch between single mode and automatic modes.
In single mode only one note will be played and Arpoli will act like a "normal" Midi2CV interface
in automatic mode either arpeggios (arpeggiomode) or a programmed sequence (sequenceermode) will be played
The Voltage on CV depends on the played note and the pitchbend


Poti 1) 
if in arpeggio mode, different patterns will be played depending on the potentiometers value
no effect in single or sequencer mode
See below to find the explanation of an arpeggiopattern and how to change these.

Poti 2)
will determine the speed of the played notes in automatic modes.
If an external (Jack 4) clock/trigger signal exists the poti will act like a clock divider/multiplier
no effect in Single mode

Poti 3)
will determine the length of the gate of one note in automatic mode.
Depends on the timeinnterval between two played notes and will be recaclulated if this time changes.
TBA
Fully rotated clockwise will result in a gate "slightly" longer than the timeinterval between two notes.
Fully rotated anticlockwise will result in a "very short" gate of 10ms.

Switch 2)
Arpeggiomode up -> "normal arpegggiomode" the notes to be played will be sorted upwards. 
The real order will be determined by the pattern though
Arpeggiomode down -> "special arpeggiomodes" a<ctivated - see switch 3)
Singlemode up -> "normal singlemode" the last note pressed will be played 
Singlemode down -> special singelmodes activated -> see witch 3)
Sequencer up -> normal sequencermode the notes will be played in the recorded order
Sequencer down -> special sequencermode activated see swicth 3)

Switch 3)
special modes, avaipable if switch 2 is down

arpeggiospecialmode 1 -> the notes to be played will be played in downwards order
The real order will be changed by the used pattern though
arpeggiospecialmode 2 -> the notes to be plöayed will be played in order as they wer pressed on the keyboard
The real order will be changed by the used pattern though

singlespecialmode 1 -> only the highest currently pressed note will be played
singlespecialmode 2 -> only the lowest currently pressed note will be played

sequencedspecialmode 1 -> the order of the sequence will be reversed
sequencedspecialmode 2 -> "normal" and reversed order will be played alternating 

Switch 4)
activates the sequencermode ()

Jack 1) 
CV out ... 

Jack 2)
Expression out. depends on the mode, which midi event will be converted to Voltage and sent to this jack.
You can choose between velocity, modulation wheel and aftertouch (see configButton)
Max Voltage output is 4V

Jack 3)
Gate out -> if at least one note is actually played (either in single or automatic mode) the gate is set to on.
in single mode the gate will set to off, only if no key is pressed or sustainoedal is pressed.
in automatic modes the gate off will be set depending omn the gate length calculation (see Poti 3)

Jack 4)
Clock In
On a rising flank, the clockmode will be activated . In this mode the speed of the automatci modes 
will be controlled by the clock (and the clock divider/multiplier explained for Poti 2)
The clockmode will only be deactivated when no signal change occured for eight seconds. 

ConfigButton
Can be used for various settings.
1) if pressed and a single note is played the expression mode is set to velocity
2) if pressed and the modulation wheel is moved heavily the expression mode is set to modulation wheel
3) if pressed and the aftzertouch is used heavily the expression mode is set to aftertouch
4) if pressed ant the sustainpedal is pressed the arpeggiatorHoldMode (see below) is activated
5) if pressed and the sustainpedal is released the arpeggiatorHoldMode (see below) is deactivatd
6) (to be tested) if pressed and one interval is played on the keyboard the pitch bend range will be set to the notes interval (default is 2)

arpeggiatorHoldMode
is kind of a virtual sustainPedal when in arpeggiator-Mode
Any pressed or released note will be held unless a new single note is pressed.
Example: play a chord, relase all keys, the arpeggio will still play unless a new key or chord is pressed.

sequencermode (to be tested)
when switching the sequencerSwitch you are automatically in sequencermode_stop.
This can also be a convenient way to kind of reset the arpOli, as it clears all noteBuffers and modes, 
if for example a midi note off sustain pedal off was not detected. 
To record a new sequence, press the configMode Button once and play your stepsequencernotes. 
After ending this, press the configMode Button to end the recording. If you play a not that
is out of the range of the arpOli you insert a pause instead.
You play a sequence press a key on the keyboard. Depending on the key you pressed the sequence will be shifted
in pitch (C4 -> no shift, F4 shift a quart ando so on).
If you press a key while the sequence is played the sequence will be shifted with the next note to be played
If you press a key while the sequence is played and you hold the configButton the sequence will not be shifted (it 
will hold its former shiftstatus, though) and the sequence will be  
chqnged on the current position and the note in the sequence will be replaced by your pressed note
To stop the sequence just switch off the sequencerSwicth. The recorded sequence will not be deleted unless you record a new on.


Patterns:
Arpeggiopatterns can be stored in the arpOli.
the arpOli stores the keys you press in a notebuffer (special case is while pressing sustain pedal or if you are in arpeggiatorHoldeMode)
notebuffers can have an order (upwards, downwards or order you pressed the key) 
a pattern is simply a sequnce of simple instructions to determine the pointer to the next note to be played in the notebuffer 
a "1" means: just take the next note in the buffer, raise the pointer by one
a "2" means: just take the 2nd next note, raise the pointer by two
a "3" means: ..... you get the point.
a "0" means: repeat the last note, 
its also possible to go backwards in the notebuffer by setting negative numbers
a "r" means: jump to a random note in the buffer, random notepointer
a "b" means: go to the first note of the buffer, notepointer = 0
if a pattern comes to its end it will restart from beginnjng 
if a notepointer is out of the notebuffers range (either smaller than 0 or bigger than the buffers length) 
the notepointer will be modded by the notebuffers current length

a very simple pattern is
1 -> it will just cycle through the notebuffer
0,1 -> cycle through the buffer but play every note twice
R,B -> the sequener plays the first not of the buffer, than a random one and the we will start this again
2,-1 -> press all keys of a scale see what it does :-)
A pattern can also have a fixed length (not the length of the patterndescription) if it reaches the length of the pattern the 
begin of the nest pattern will lead to an B-"command" Begin the notebuffer again.

Imagine a 5 note chord pressed on the keyboard.  (c1,g1,c2,e2,g2) 
the first matrixpattern above (only the "1") will lead to a sequence of c1,g1,c2,e2,g2,c1,g1,c2,e2,g2,c1,g1,c2,e2,g2 
kind of odd when you are in a 4/4 or similar mode. If this pattern has a fixed length of 8 it would lead to
c1,g1,c2,e2,g2,c1,g1,c2,c1,g1,c2,e2,g2,c1,g1,c2, every 8th note starting with the first note of the buffer.

These patterns can be programmed via keyboard if in patternChangeMode


